assets/README.md, before:

# Assets Directory

This directory contains multimedia assets for the AI documentation system.

## 📁 Directory Structure

### 🖼️ Images/
- Concept illustrations and diagrams
- Architecture diagrams
- Infographics and visual explanations
- Screenshots and demonstrations

### 📊 Diagrams/
- System architecture diagrams
- Flowcharts and process diagrams
- Network and connection diagrams
- Mathematical and algorithmic visualizations

### 📈 Charts/
- Performance metrics and comparisons
- Statistical analysis charts
- Trend analysis visualizations
- Benchmark results

### 🎥 Videos/
- Tutorial videos and demonstrations
- Conference presentations and talks
- Animated explanations
- Real-world application showcases

## 📝 Usage Guidelines

### Image Naming Convention
- Use descriptive, lowercase names with underscores
- Include section prefix for organization (e.g., `ml_linear_algebra_basics.png`)
- Include version or date for evolving content
- Use appropriate file formats (PNG for diagrams, JPG for photos)

### Diagram Standards
- Maintain consistent styling across diagrams
- Use color coding for different concepts
- Include legends and labels where necessary
- Ensure accessibility with high contrast and readable fonts

### Chart Best Practices
- Use appropriate chart types for data
- Include axis labels and units
- Provide context and explanations
- Ensure data accuracy and proper scaling

## 🔧 Tools and Resources

### Creation Tools
- **Diagrams**: Draw.io, Lucidchart, Mermaid.js
- **Images**: GIMP, Inkscape, Canva
- **Charts**: Matplotlib, Seaborn, D3.js
- **Videos**: OBS Studio, ScreenFlow, Camtasia

### Templates
- Use consistent templates for diagrams
- Maintain brand guidelines for visual assets
- Include attribution and licensing information
- Provide source files when possible

## 📄 Licensing and Attribution

- All assets should be properly licensed
- Include attribution for third-party content
- Document creation sources and tools
- Maintain version control for evolving assets

## 🚀 Contributing

When adding new assets:
1. Follow the naming conventions
2. Include appropriate metadata
3. Update this README if adding new categories
4. Ensure accessibility compliance
5. Test asset rendering across different platforms

Commit message:

feat: Major documentation update and knowledge system implementation
- Updated 170+ documentation files across all AI/ML modules
- Added intelligent knowledge orchestration system with AI-powered content discovery
- Implemented comprehensive navigation and cross-reference systems
- Added interactive learning interface and documentation reader
- Enhanced content discovery with knowledge graph visualization
- Added learning system with progress tracking
- Updated requirements and dependencies
- Added sitemap and robots.txt for better discoverability
- Improved module organization and structure

assets/README.md, after:

---
title: "Overview - Assets Directory | AI Documentation"
description: "This directory contains multimedia assets for the AI documentation system.. Comprehensive guide covering . Part of AI documentation system with 1500+ topics."
keywords: ", , artificial intelligence, machine learning, AI documentation"
author: "AI Documentation Team"
---

# Assets Directory

This directory contains multimedia assets for the AI documentation system.

## 📁 Directory Structure

### 🖼️ Images/
- Concept illustrations and diagrams
- Architecture diagrams
- Infographics and visual explanations
- Screenshots and demonstrations

### 📊 Diagrams/
- System architecture diagrams
- Flowcharts and process diagrams
- Network and connection diagrams
- Mathematical and algorithmic visualizations

### 📈 Charts/
- Performance metrics and comparisons
- Statistical analysis charts
- Trend analysis visualizations
- Benchmark results

### 🎥 Videos/
- Tutorial videos and demonstrations
- Conference presentations and talks
- Animated explanations
- Real-world application showcases

## 📝 Usage Guidelines

### Image Naming Convention
- Use descriptive, lowercase names with underscores
- Include section prefix for organization (e.g., `ml_linear_algebra_basics.png`)
- Include version or date for evolving content
- Use appropriate file formats (PNG for diagrams, JPG for photos)

### Diagram Standards
- Maintain consistent styling across diagrams
- Use color coding for different concepts
- Include legends and labels where necessary
- Ensure accessibility with high contrast and readable fonts

### Chart Best Practices
- Use appropriate chart types for data
- Include axis labels and units
- Provide context and explanations
- Ensure data accuracy and proper scaling

## 🔧 Tools and Resources

### Creation Tools
- **Diagrams**: Draw.io, Lucidchart, Mermaid.js
- **Images**: GIMP, Inkscape, Canva
- **Charts**: Matplotlib, Seaborn, D3.js
- **Videos**: OBS Studio, ScreenFlow, Camtasia

### Templates
- Use consistent templates for diagrams
- Maintain brand guidelines for visual assets
- Include attribution and licensing information
- Provide source files when possible

## 📄 Licensing and Attribution

- All assets should be properly licensed
- Include attribution for third-party content
- Document creation sources and tools
- Maintain version control for evolving assets

## 🚀 Contributing

When adding new assets:
1. Follow the naming conventions
2. Include appropriate metadata
3. Update this README if adding new categories
4. Ensure accessibility compliance
5. Test asset rendering across different platforms
