example_projects/01_foundational_ml/01_complete_ml_pipeline/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md, before:

# Complete ML Pipeline Project Structure

This document provides a comprehensive overview of the project structure, file organization, and purpose of each component in the customer churn prediction pipeline.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
01_complete_ml_pipeline/
├── 📄 README.md                     # Main project documentation
├── 📄 requirements.txt              # Python dependencies
├── 📄 Dockerfile                   # Docker configuration
├── 📄 docker-compose.yml           # Multi-container orchestration
├── 📄 .env.example                 # Environment variables template
├── 📄 PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md         # This structure document
│
├── 📁 config/                      # Configuration files
│   ├── 📄 model_config.yaml        # Model parameters and settings
│   ├── 📄 preprocessing_config.yaml # Data preprocessing settings
│   ├── 📄 api_config.yaml          # API configuration
│   └── 📄 monitoring_config.yaml   # Monitoring and alerting settings
│
├── 📁 src/                         # Source code
│   ├── 📁 data/                    # Data processing modules
│   │   ├── 🐍 preprocessing.py     # Data preprocessing pipeline
│   │   ├── 🐍 feature_engineering.py # Feature engineering utilities
│   │   ├── 🐍 data_loader.py       # Data loading utilities
│   │   └── 🐍 data_validation.py   # Data validation with Pandera
│   │
│   ├── 📁 models/                  # Model implementations
│   │   ├── 🐍 ensemble_model.py    # Ensemble model implementation
│   │   ├── 🐍 model_registry.py    # Model registry management
│   │   ├── 🐍 base_model.py        # Base model class
│   │   └── 🐍 hyperparameter_tuning.py # Hyperparameter optimization
│   │
│   ├── 📁 training/               # Training scripts and utilities
│   │   ├── 🐍 train.py             # Main training script
│   │   ├── 🐍 cross_validation.py  # Cross-validation strategies
│   │   └── 🐍 model_selection.py   # Model selection utilities
│   │
│   ├── 📁 inference/               # Inference and API code
│   │   ├── 🐍 api.py              # FastAPI application
│   │   ├── 🐍 predict.py          # Prediction logic
│   │   ├── 🐍 batch_processor.py   # Batch processing utilities
│   │   └── 🐍 model_loader.py     # Model loading utilities
│   │
│   └── 📁 utils/                   # Utility functions
│       ├── 🐍 monitoring.py       # Monitoring and metrics collection
│       ├── 🐍 logging.py          # Logging configuration
│       ├── 🐍 metrics.py          # Performance metrics
│       ├── 🐍 database.py         # Database utilities
│       └── 🐍 config_loader.py    # Configuration loading
│
├── 📁 notebooks/                  # Jupyter notebooks for experimentation
│   ├── 📊 01_data_exploration.ipynb     # Data exploration and EDA
│   ├── ⚙️ 02_feature_engineering.ipynb  # Feature engineering experiments
│   ├── 🤖 03_model_training.ipynb      # Model training and evaluation
│   └── 📈 04_model_evaluation.ipynb    # Model evaluation and analysis
│
├── 📁 tests/                      # Test files
│   ├── 🧪 test_data_processing.py  # Data processing tests
│   ├── 🧪 test_models.py          # Model tests
│   ├── 🧪 test_api.py             # API tests
│   ├── 🧪 test_training.py        # Training pipeline tests
│   └── 🧪 test_integration.py     # Integration tests
│
├── 📁 deployment/                 # Deployment configurations
│   ├── 🐳 docker/                 # Docker-specific configs
│   │   ├── 🐋 Dockerfile.api      # API Dockerfile
│   │   ├── 🐋 Dockerfile.training # Training Dockerfile
│   │   └── 🐋 Dockerfile.mlflow   # MLflow Dockerfile
│   │
│   ├── ☸️ kubernetes/             # Kubernetes manifests
│   │   ├── 📋 api-deployment.yaml # API deployment
│   │   ├── 📋 training-job.yaml  # Training job
│   │   ├── 📋 service.yaml       # Service configuration
│   │   ├── 📋 configmap.yaml     # Configuration
│   │   └── 📋 hpa.yaml          # Horizontal Pod Autoscaler
│   │
│   └── ☁️ cloud/                  # Cloud deployment templates
│       ├── 🌩️ aws/               # AWS specific configs
│       │   ├── 📋 ecs-task-definition.json
│       │   └── 📋 cloudformation-template.yaml
│       └── ☁️ gcp/               # GCP specific configs
│           └── 📋 cloud-run.yaml
│
├── 📁 data/                       # Data files
│   ├── 📊 raw/                    # Raw datasets
│   │   └── 📄 customer_churn.csv  # Sample customer data
│   ├── 🧹 processed/              # Processed and cleaned data
│   │   └── 📄 customer_churn_processed.csv
│   └── 📝 sample/                 # Sample data for testing
│       └── 📄 sample_churn.csv
│
├── 📁 scripts/                    # Utility scripts
│   ├── ⚙️ setup_database.py      # Database setup script
│   ├── 🧹 preprocess_data.py     # Data preprocessing script
│   ├── 🏃 train_models.py        # Model training script
│   ├── 📊 evaluate_models.py     # Model evaluation script
│   ├── 🚀 deploy.sh             # Deployment script
│   └── 📈 monitor.sh            # Monitoring script
│
└── 📁 docs/                      # Additional documentation
    ├── 📖 api_documentation.md   # API endpoint documentation
    ├── 🚀 deployment_guide.md   # Deployment instructions
    ├── 🔧 troubleshooting.md    # Common issues and solutions
    ├── 📚 model_documentation.md # Model details and algorithms
    └── 📖 user_guide.md        # User guide and tutorials
```

## 🔧 Key Components

### 1. Configuration Files (`config/`)

- **model_config.yaml**: Model parameters, ensemble settings, hyperparameter optimization
- **preprocessing_config.yaml**: Data cleaning, feature engineering, validation rules
- **api_config.yaml**: API endpoints, rate limiting, caching settings
- **monitoring_config.yaml**: Metrics collection, alerting thresholds, dashboards

### 2. Data Processing (`src/data/`)

- **preprocessing.py**: Complete data pipeline with validation, cleaning, and transformation
- **feature_engineering.py**: Advanced feature creation and selection
- **data_loader.py**: Efficient data loading from various sources
- **data_validation.py**: Data quality checks using Pandera

### 3. Models (`src/models/`)

- **ensemble_model.py**: Advanced ensemble with weighted averaging, stacking, voting
- **model_registry.py**: Model versioning and management
- **base_model.py**: Abstract base class for all models
- **hyperparameter_tuning.py**: Bayesian optimization and grid search

### 4. Training (`src/training/`)

- **train.py**: Main training orchestration with MLflow integration
- **cross_validation.py**: Stratified CV with custom metrics
- **model_selection.py**: Automated model selection and comparison

### 5. Inference API (`src/inference/`)

- **api.py**: FastAPI application with async support
- **predict.py**: Prediction logic with error handling
- **batch_processor.py**: Efficient batch processing
- **model_loader.py**: Model loading with versioning

### 6. Utilities (`src/utils/`)

- **monitoring.py**: Prometheus metrics, drift detection, alerting
- **logging.py**: Structured logging with multiple outputs
- **metrics.py**: Performance metrics and evaluation
- **database.py**: Database connection and operations
- **config_loader.py**: Configuration management

### 7. Notebooks (`notebooks/`)

Interactive notebooks for experimentation and analysis:
- Data exploration and visualization
- Feature engineering experiments
- Model training and comparison
- Model evaluation and analysis

### 8. Tests (`tests/`)

Comprehensive test suite covering:
- Data processing pipelines
- Model training and evaluation
- API endpoints and functionality
- Integration testing
- Performance testing

### 9. Deployment (`deployment/`)

Multi-platform deployment configurations:
- **Docker**: Containerized applications
- **Kubernetes**: Cloud-native orchestration
- **AWS**: ECS, CloudFormation templates
- **GCP**: Cloud Run configurations

## 🚀 Data Flow

```
Raw Data → Data Preprocessing → Feature Engineering → Model Training → Model Evaluation → API Deployment → Monitoring
     ↓              ↓                    ↓                  ↓                ↓               ↓           ↓
  Validation      Cleaning          Engineering      Hyperparameter    Performance      FastAPI     Metrics
                                    Selection       Optimization      Analysis        Endpoints    Collection
```

## 🔄 Development Workflow

### 1. Data Exploration
```bash
jupyter notebook notebooks/01_data_exploration.ipynb
```

### 2. Model Development
```bash
python src/training/train.py --config config/model_config.yaml --data data/raw/customer_churn.csv
```

### 3. API Testing
```bash
uvicorn src.inference.api:app --reload --port 8000
```

### 4. Deployment
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### 5. Monitoring
```bash
# Access Grafana dashboard
open http://localhost:3000

# Access MLflow UI
open http://localhost:5000
```

## 📊 Performance Characteristics

### API Performance
- **Single Prediction**: < 100ms latency
- **Batch Prediction**: 1000+ predictions/second
- **Memory Usage**: < 1GB RAM
- **CPU Usage**: < 50% (single core)

### Model Performance
- **Accuracy**: 85-90% (depending on dataset)
- **ROC AUC**: 0.85-0.92
- **Precision/Recall**: Balanced for business use case
- **Training Time**: < 30 minutes (medium dataset)

### Infrastructure Requirements
- **Minimum**: 2 CPU, 4GB RAM, 10GB storage
- **Recommended**: 4 CPU, 8GB RAM, 50GB storage
- **Production**: 8+ CPU, 16GB+ RAM, 100GB+ storage

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Core Technologies
- **Python 3.9**: Primary language
- **FastAPI**: High-performance web framework
- **scikit-learn**: Traditional ML algorithms
- **XGBoost/LightGBM**: Gradient boosting
- **PostgreSQL**: Primary database
- **Redis**: Caching layer

### ML Engineering
- **MLflow**: Experiment tracking and model registry
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection
- **Grafana**: Visualization dashboards
- **Docker**: Containerization
- **Kubernetes**: Orchestration

### Data Processing
- **pandas**: Data manipulation
- **numpy**: Numerical computing
- **scipy**: Scientific computing
- **Pandera**: Data validation

### Monitoring & Observability
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection
- **Grafana**: Visualization
- **ELK Stack**: Logging (optional)
- **Custom Monitoring**: Drift detection, alerting

## 📈 Scalability Considerations

### Horizontal Scaling
- API: Multiple instances behind load balancer
- Database: Read replicas, connection pooling
- Caching: Redis cluster for high availability

### Vertical Scaling
- CPU: Multi-core processing for batch operations
- Memory: Optimized for large datasets
- Storage: SSD for faster I/O operations

### Performance Optimization
- **Caching**: Redis for frequently accessed predictions
- **Async Processing**: FastAPI async endpoints
- **Model Optimization**: Quantization, pruning
- **Database Indexing**: Optimized query performance

## 🔒 Security Considerations

### API Security
- **Authentication**: API key or JWT tokens
- **Authorization**: Role-based access control
- **Rate Limiting**: Prevent abuse
- **Input Validation**: Pydantic models

### Data Security
- **Encryption**: TLS for data in transit
- **Database**: Encrypted storage
- **Environment Variables**: Sensitive data protection
- **Audit Logging**: Track all operations

### Model Security
- **Input Validation**: Check prediction inputs
- **Output Validation**: Verify prediction outputs
- **Model Versioning**: Track model provenance
- **Access Control**: Limit model access

## 🚀 Deployment Options

### Local Development
```bash
docker-compose --profile dev up
```

### Production (Docker)
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### Kubernetes
```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment/kubernetes/
```

### Cloud Services
- **AWS**: ECS, RDS, ElastiCache
- **GCP**: Cloud Run, Cloud SQL, Memorystore
- **Azure**: Container Instances, Database for PostgreSQL

## 📚 Documentation

- **API Documentation**: Auto-generated FastAPI docs at `/docs`
- **Model Documentation**: Technical details in `docs/model_documentation.md`
- **Deployment Guide**: Step-by-step instructions in `docs/deployment_guide.md`
- **User Guide**: Tutorials and examples in `docs/user_guide.md`

## 🤝 Contributing

1. **Code Style**: Follow PEP 8, use black formatter
2. **Testing**: Maintain >90% test coverage
3. **Documentation**: Update docs for new features
4. **Version Control**: Semantic versioning
5. **Code Reviews**: All changes require review

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

---

*This structure provides a solid foundation for production-grade ML systems and can be adapted for various use cases beyond customer churn prediction.*

Commit message:

feat: Major documentation update and knowledge system implementation
- Updated 170+ documentation files across all AI/ML modules
- Added intelligent knowledge orchestration system with AI-powered content discovery
- Implemented comprehensive navigation and cross-reference systems
- Added interactive learning interface and documentation reader
- Enhanced content discovery with knowledge graph visualization
- Added learning system with progress tracking
- Updated requirements and dependencies
- Added sitemap and robots.txt for better discoverability
- Improved module organization and structure

example_projects/01_foundational_ml/01_complete_ml_pipeline/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md, after:

---
title: "Foundational Ml - Complete ML Pipeline Project Structure |"
description: "This document provides a comprehensive overview of the project structure, file organization, and purpose of each component in the customer churn prediction p..."
keywords: "optimization, model training, algorithm, model training, optimization, algorithm, artificial intelligence, machine learning, AI documentation"
author: "AI Documentation Team"
---

# Complete ML Pipeline Project Structure

This document provides a comprehensive overview of the project structure, file organization, and purpose of each component in the customer churn prediction pipeline.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
01_complete_ml_pipeline/
├── 📄 README.md                     # Main project documentation
├── 📄 requirements.txt              # Python dependencies
├── 📄 Dockerfile                   # Docker configuration
├── 📄 docker-compose.yml           # Multi-container orchestration
├── 📄 .env.example                 # Environment variables template
├── 📄 PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md         # This structure document
│
├── 📁 config/                      # Configuration files
│   ├── 📄 model_config.yaml        # Model parameters and settings
│   ├── 📄 preprocessing_config.yaml # Data preprocessing settings
│   ├── 📄 api_config.yaml          # API configuration
│   └── 📄 monitoring_config.yaml   # Monitoring and alerting settings
│
├── 📁 src/                         # Source code
│   ├── 📁 data/                    # Data processing modules
│   │   ├── 🐍 preprocessing.py     # Data preprocessing pipeline
│   │   ├── 🐍 feature_engineering.py # Feature engineering utilities
│   │   ├── 🐍 data_loader.py       # Data loading utilities
│   │   └── 🐍 data_validation.py   # Data validation with Pandera
│   │
│   ├── 📁 models/                  # Model implementations
│   │   ├── 🐍 ensemble_model.py    # Ensemble model implementation
│   │   ├── 🐍 model_registry.py    # Model registry management
│   │   ├── 🐍 base_model.py        # Base model class
│   │   └── 🐍 hyperparameter_tuning.py # Hyperparameter optimization
│   │
│   ├── 📁 training/               # Training scripts and utilities
│   │   ├── 🐍 train.py             # Main training script
│   │   ├── 🐍 cross_validation.py  # Cross-validation strategies
│   │   └── 🐍 model_selection.py   # Model selection utilities
│   │
│   ├── 📁 inference/               # Inference and API code
│   │   ├── 🐍 api.py              # FastAPI application
│   │   ├── 🐍 predict.py          # Prediction logic
│   │   ├── 🐍 batch_processor.py   # Batch processing utilities
│   │   └── 🐍 model_loader.py     # Model loading utilities
│   │
│   └── 📁 utils/                   # Utility functions
│       ├── 🐍 monitoring.py       # Monitoring and metrics collection
│       ├── 🐍 logging.py          # Logging configuration
│       ├── 🐍 metrics.py          # Performance metrics
│       ├── 🐍 database.py         # Database utilities
│       └── 🐍 config_loader.py    # Configuration loading
│
├── 📁 notebooks/                  # Jupyter notebooks for experimentation
│   ├── 📊 01_data_exploration.ipynb     # Data exploration and EDA
│   ├── ⚙️ 02_feature_engineering.ipynb  # Feature engineering experiments
│   ├── 🤖 03_model_training.ipynb      # Model training and evaluation
│   └── 📈 04_model_evaluation.ipynb    # Model evaluation and analysis
│
├── 📁 tests/                      # Test files
│   ├── 🧪 test_data_processing.py  # Data processing tests
│   ├── 🧪 test_models.py          # Model tests
│   ├── 🧪 test_api.py             # API tests
│   ├── 🧪 test_training.py        # Training pipeline tests
│   └── 🧪 test_integration.py     # Integration tests
│
├── 📁 deployment/                 # Deployment configurations
│   ├── 🐳 docker/                 # Docker-specific configs
│   │   ├── 🐋 Dockerfile.api      # API Dockerfile
│   │   ├── 🐋 Dockerfile.training # Training Dockerfile
│   │   └── 🐋 Dockerfile.mlflow   # MLflow Dockerfile
│   │
│   ├── ☸️ kubernetes/             # Kubernetes manifests
│   │   ├── 📋 api-deployment.yaml # API deployment
│   │   ├── 📋 training-job.yaml  # Training job
│   │   ├── 📋 service.yaml       # Service configuration
│   │   ├── 📋 configmap.yaml     # Configuration
│   │   └── 📋 hpa.yaml          # Horizontal Pod Autoscaler
│   │
│   └── ☁️ cloud/                  # Cloud deployment templates
│       ├── 🌩️ aws/               # AWS specific configs
│       │   ├── 📋 ecs-task-definition.json
│       │   └── 📋 cloudformation-template.yaml
│       └── ☁️ gcp/               # GCP specific configs
│           └── 📋 cloud-run.yaml
│
├── 📁 data/                       # Data files
│   ├── 📊 raw/                    # Raw datasets
│   │   └── 📄 customer_churn.csv  # Sample customer data
│   ├── 🧹 processed/              # Processed and cleaned data
│   │   └── 📄 customer_churn_processed.csv
│   └── 📝 sample/                 # Sample data for testing
│       └── 📄 sample_churn.csv
│
├── 📁 scripts/                    # Utility scripts
│   ├── ⚙️ setup_database.py      # Database setup script
│   ├── 🧹 preprocess_data.py     # Data preprocessing script
│   ├── 🏃 train_models.py        # Model training script
│   ├── 📊 evaluate_models.py     # Model evaluation script
│   ├── 🚀 deploy.sh             # Deployment script
│   └── 📈 monitor.sh            # Monitoring script
│
└── 📁 docs/                      # Additional documentation
    ├── 📖 api_documentation.md   # API endpoint documentation
    ├── 🚀 deployment_guide.md   # Deployment instructions
    ├── 🔧 troubleshooting.md    # Common issues and solutions
    ├── 📚 model_documentation.md # Model details and algorithms
    └── 📖 user_guide.md        # User guide and tutorials
```

## 🔧 Key Components

### 1. Configuration Files (`config/`)

- **model_config.yaml**: Model parameters, ensemble settings, hyperparameter optimization
- **preprocessing_config.yaml**: Data cleaning, feature engineering, validation rules
- **api_config.yaml**: API endpoints, rate limiting, caching settings
- **monitoring_config.yaml**: Metrics collection, alerting thresholds, dashboards

### 2. Data Processing (`src/data/`)

- **preprocessing.py**: Complete data pipeline with validation, cleaning, and transformation
- **feature_engineering.py**: Advanced feature creation and selection
- **data_loader.py**: Efficient data loading from various sources
- **data_validation.py**: Data quality checks using Pandera

### 3. Models (`src/models/`)

- **ensemble_model.py**: Advanced ensemble with weighted averaging, stacking, voting
- **model_registry.py**: Model versioning and management
- **base_model.py**: Abstract base class for all models
- **hyperparameter_tuning.py**: Bayesian optimization and grid search

### 4. Training (`src/training/`)

- **train.py**: Main training orchestration with MLflow integration
- **cross_validation.py**: Stratified CV with custom metrics
- **model_selection.py**: Automated model selection and comparison

### 5. Inference API (`src/inference/`)

- **api.py**: FastAPI application with async support
- **predict.py**: Prediction logic with error handling
- **batch_processor.py**: Efficient batch processing
- **model_loader.py**: Model loading with versioning

### 6. Utilities (`src/utils/`)

- **monitoring.py**: Prometheus metrics, drift detection, alerting
- **logging.py**: Structured logging with multiple outputs
- **metrics.py**: Performance metrics and evaluation
- **database.py**: Database connection and operations
- **config_loader.py**: Configuration management

### 7. Notebooks (`notebooks/`)

Interactive notebooks for experimentation and analysis:
- Data exploration and visualization
- Feature engineering experiments
- Model training and comparison
- Model evaluation and analysis

### 8. Tests (`tests/`)

Comprehensive test suite covering:
- Data processing pipelines
- Model training and evaluation
- API endpoints and functionality
- Integration testing
- Performance testing

### 9. Deployment (`deployment/`)

Multi-platform deployment configurations:
- **Docker**: Containerized applications
- **Kubernetes**: Cloud-native orchestration
- **AWS**: ECS, CloudFormation templates
- **GCP**: Cloud Run configurations

## 🚀 Data Flow

```
Raw Data → Data Preprocessing → Feature Engineering → Model Training → Model Evaluation → API Deployment → Monitoring
     ↓              ↓                    ↓                  ↓                ↓               ↓           ↓
  Validation      Cleaning          Engineering      Hyperparameter    Performance      FastAPI     Metrics
                                    Selection       Optimization      Analysis        Endpoints    Collection
```

## 🔄 Development Workflow

### 1. Data Exploration
```bash
jupyter notebook notebooks/01_data_exploration.ipynb
```

### 2. Model Development
```bash
python src/training/train.py --config config/model_config.yaml --data data/raw/customer_churn.csv
```

### 3. API Testing
```bash
uvicorn src.inference.api:app --reload --port 8000
```

### 4. Deployment
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### 5. Monitoring
```bash
# Access Grafana dashboard
open http://localhost:3000

# Access MLflow UI
open http://localhost:5000
```

## 📊 Performance Characteristics

### API Performance
- **Single Prediction**: < 100ms latency
- **Batch Prediction**: 1000+ predictions/second
- **Memory Usage**: < 1GB RAM
- **CPU Usage**: < 50% (single core)

### Model Performance
- **Accuracy**: 85-90% (depending on dataset)
- **ROC AUC**: 0.85-0.92
- **Precision/Recall**: Balanced for business use case
- **Training Time**: < 30 minutes (medium dataset)

### Infrastructure Requirements
- **Minimum**: 2 CPU, 4GB RAM, 10GB storage
- **Recommended**: 4 CPU, 8GB RAM, 50GB storage
- **Production**: 8+ CPU, 16GB+ RAM, 100GB+ storage

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Core Technologies
- **Python 3.9**: Primary language
- **FastAPI**: High-performance web framework
- **scikit-learn**: Traditional ML algorithms
- **XGBoost/LightGBM**: Gradient boosting
- **PostgreSQL**: Primary database
- **Redis**: Caching layer

### ML Engineering
- **MLflow**: Experiment tracking and model registry
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection
- **Grafana**: Visualization dashboards
- **Docker**: Containerization
- **Kubernetes**: Orchestration

### Data Processing
- **pandas**: Data manipulation
- **numpy**: Numerical computing
- **scipy**: Scientific computing
- **Pandera**: Data validation

### Monitoring & Observability
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection
- **Grafana**: Visualization
- **ELK Stack**: Logging (optional)
- **Custom Monitoring**: Drift detection, alerting

## 📈 Scalability Considerations

### Horizontal Scaling
- API: Multiple instances behind load balancer
- Database: Read replicas, connection pooling
- Caching: Redis cluster for high availability

### Vertical Scaling
- CPU: Multi-core processing for batch operations
- Memory: Optimized for large datasets
- Storage: SSD for faster I/O operations

### Performance Optimization
- **Caching**: Redis for frequently accessed predictions
- **Async Processing**: FastAPI async endpoints
- **Model Optimization**: Quantization, pruning
- **Database Indexing**: Optimized query performance

## 🔒 Security Considerations

### API Security
- **Authentication**: API key or JWT tokens
- **Authorization**: Role-based access control
- **Rate Limiting**: Prevent abuse
- **Input Validation**: Pydantic models

### Data Security
- **Encryption**: TLS for data in transit
- **Database**: Encrypted storage
- **Environment Variables**: Sensitive data protection
- **Audit Logging**: Track all operations

### Model Security
- **Input Validation**: Check prediction inputs
- **Output Validation**: Verify prediction outputs
- **Model Versioning**: Track model provenance
- **Access Control**: Limit model access

## 🚀 Deployment Options

### Local Development
```bash
docker-compose --profile dev up
```

### Production (Docker)
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### Kubernetes
```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment/kubernetes/
```

### Cloud Services
- **AWS**: ECS, RDS, ElastiCache
- **GCP**: Cloud Run, Cloud SQL, Memorystore
- **Azure**: Container Instances, Database for PostgreSQL

## 📚 Documentation

- **API Documentation**: Auto-generated FastAPI docs at `/docs`
- **Model Documentation**: Technical details in `docs/model_documentation.md`
- **Deployment Guide**: Step-by-step instructions in `docs/deployment_guide.md`
- **User Guide**: Tutorials and examples in `docs/user_guide.md`

## 🤝 Contributing

1. **Code Style**: Follow PEP 8, use black formatter
2. **Testing**: Maintain >90% test coverage
3. **Documentation**: Update docs for new features
4. **Version Control**: Semantic versioning
5. **Code Reviews**: All changes require review

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

---

*This structure provides a solid foundation for production-grade ML systems and can be adapted for various use cases beyond customer churn prediction.*
